I never heard Jackson tell it.
I forget how I discovered it, but that was part of my introduction to Taylor.
But let's throw that out as a... How do you feel about that?
If that, in fact, without using that as a general policy, if you have a perfect copy of the book, of an exceedingly scarce book, how do you feel about this thought that perhaps it shouldn't be in an institution, that perhaps it should be in the hands of a private collector?
Well, I suppose that if we were talking a generation ago, we would say that private collectors are able to pass on books of that sort, maybe great bookbinders, or fragile, modern books, books of the past 150 years, in pristine condition, because they don't.
Collectors tend not to use their books, but to handle them with great care, to make protective cases, and they've done that for 100 years.
Now,
perhaps it's part of our responsibility in institutions to not only serve readers with microfilms and books that get copied and with books that get used up.
Just think of the undergraduate using up copy after copy after copy of standard text and reference books, which we replace with other, not only to do that, but perhaps to take very good care
of some great historical documents in manuscript or printed form.
We showed in bibliography class a week or two ago a perfect Elizabethan quarto, untrimmed.
We were talking about formats, size of the sheet, size of the book, and we wanted to make the point about what that looked like
So we didn't open it, even.
We showed it as a closed pamphlet, full-sized, untrimmed.
And that exists here for that purpose.
Not to be read, not to be micro-focused, but just for that purpose.
And there may be an increasing number of books like that, which we will have to designate for that purpose.
book here and part of it has been for years.
Because we know that those books have a limited life.
There's so many times you open the fragile leaves and they break.
You can almost make the comparison with how often you show watercolors in the museum.
It's the same thing.
There's only so many looks in the same thing.
You go to the Portland Art Museum